Machine learning and its fields of study have been contributing a lot for the development of intelligent systems and devices, ranging from voice recognition systems to self driving cars. In recent years, one of the areas that has most achieved benefits from the development of machine learning was the computer vision area, with the use of CNNs (Convolutional Neural Networks). The concept of artificial CNNs was first proposed in the 90s, by Yann LeCun, but this new concept only became famous in 2012, when a CNN won the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challange - ILSVRC. It started the development of new techniques for classifying images, such as deep learning. In the architecture of CNNs, the first layers are responsible for detecting generic features, as horizontal and vertical lines, curves, edges, etc. The following layers detect more specific and sometimes more abstract features, which do not always have a human meaning. Such configuration of CNNs was based on the visual cortex of cats. In a research made by David H. Hubel and Torsten N. Weisel, published in 1962, it was discovered that there are cells in the cats' visual cortex that specialize themselves on detecting specific features, like lines, while other cells specialize on detecting curves. This was the idea which helped Yann LeCun to create the artificial CNNs, where different neurons can detect different features maximizing its recognition power. This research will take advantage of such power to develop a retrained CNN to classify human facial emotions in images.




There is much discussion in the industry as to what new universal memory technology or technologies will materialize as real contenders to displace either or both NAND flash & DRAM. Some of these newer emerging technologies2 include: MRAM (Magnetic RAM), FRAM (Ferroelectric RAM), PCM (Phase Change Memory), STTRAM (Spin-Transfer Torque RAM), ReRAM (Resistive RAM) and Memristor. Currently FRAM, MRAM and PCM are in commercial production, but still, relative to DRAM & NAND flash, remain limited to niche applications. There is a view that MRAM, STT-RAM and ReRAM are the most promising emerging technologies, but they are still many years away from competing for industry adoption. Any new technology must be able to deliver most, if not all of the following attributes in order to drive industry adoption on a mass scale: scalability of the technology, speed of the device, power consumption to be better than existing memories, endurance, densities better than existing technologies and finally cost – if the emerging technology can only manage 1 or 2 of these attributes, then, at best, it is likely to be resigned to niche applications. One important question is, “what will be the next non-volatile memory to replace NAND flash?” Currently it is unclear, but due to the limitations of NAND flash (endurance, reliability, speed) when compared to DRAM, it is likely a new non-volatile memory technology will evolve; but perhaps not replacing the current mainstream memories for at least the next 5 to 7 years. However, non-volatile DIMMs, such as the ArxCis-NV™ from Viking Technology can deliver an enterprise class solution to enable increased application performance and far improved power failure / system recovery, when compared to current implementations.
